with only one week till impact what
happens from now on is crucial to build
their strength flamingoes need to eat
and surprisingly enough the lurid green
waters are chock-full of bacteria
rich in essential nutrients these birds
feed in an extraordinary way gulping
water and pumping it out through
strainers inside their bills which sieve
out the bacteria at an incredible rate
of 20 bill falls a second and to avoid
to clear heads in the caustic water
Domingo's feed with their bills upside
down the enlarged upper bill acts as a
float to keep the bird's head near the
surface and the super rich scum
because the food is microscopic the
flamingos have to suck up at least four
gallons of water a day to get enough to
eat this takes hours and hours of
feeding
they also need to avoid burning too many
calories feeding while swimming in deep
water swinging your head like this uses
a lot of energy feeding while standing
is a lot less effort and closer to shore
where the wind has blown the scum
there's a much higher concentration of
food but standing in the shallows with
your head down is a very very risky
position to be in
now hunger has driven the fish Eagle to
change the habits of a lifetime and hunt
birds instead of fish
flamingos are Gorky awkward birds with
no real means of self-defense their
natural response to danger is to get
away fast so the minute they're
threatened they run for takeoff for the
fish eagle it's crucial not to waste
energy in a long chase
it must be a quick kill that looked easy
but the hard part is working out how to
deal with a corpse compared with
catching fish which way bounces dragging
off a four pound flamingo are trying to
balance on soft squishy mud is
impossible so hungry or not the eagle
has to abandon its feast think again